
Every file has a set of permissions associated with it, which determine who can
do what with the file. If you're so organized that you keep your love letters on
the system, perhaps hierarchically arranged in a directory, you probably don't
want other people to be able to read them. You could therefore change the
permissions on each letter to frustrate gossip (or only on some of the letters,
to encourage it), or you might just change the permissions on the directory
containing the letters, and thwart snoopers that way.

But we must warn you: There is a special user on every UNIX system, called the
super-user, who can read or modify any file on the system. The special login
name root carries super-user privileges; it is used by system administrators
when they do system maintenance. There is also a command called su that grants
super-user status if you know the root password. Thus anyone who knows the
super-user password can read your love letters, so don't sensitive material in
the file system.

If you need more privacy, you can change the data in a file so that even the
super-user cannot read (or at least understand) it, using the cript command
(cript(1)). Of course, even cript isn't perfectly secure. A super-user can
change the cript command itself, and there are cryptographic attacks on the
cript algorithm. The former requires malfeasance and the latter takes hard work,
however, so cript is in practice fairly secure.

If real life, most security breaches are due to passwords that are given away or
easily guessed. Occasionally, system administrative lapses makes it possible to
for a malicious user to gain super-user permission. Security issues are
discussed further in some of the papers cited in the bibliography at the end of
this chapter.

When you log in, you type a name and then verify that you are that person by
typing a password. The name is your login identification, or login-id. But the
system actually recognizes you by a number, called your user-id, uid. In fact
different login-id's may have the same uid, making them indistinguishable to the
system, although that is relatively rare and perhaps undesirable for security
reasons. Besides a uid, you are assigned a group identification, or group-id,
which places you in a class of users. On many systems, all ordinary users (as
opposed to those with login-id's like root) are placed in a single group called
other, but your system may be different. The file system, and therefore the UNIX
system in general, determines what you can do by the
